# Recording

Find a site to record (it doesn't have to be the same as the site you used for your soundmap project) and record it from a few different perspectives for about 5 mins each time. Pay attention to how the mic placement affects the results when you listen back with headphones. Make a note of the gain you use for each recording.

Choose your favorite version to turn in on Classroom; you'll want to make sure to have a mixture of background and foreground sounds with some discrete sound events.

_In addition_, make a "silent" recording of the recorder's self-noise at the same gain you used to make your recording (you do not need to turn this in). An easy way to do this is to put the recorder under a pillow in as quiet a space as possible. You'll only need a few seconds of silence.


### Recording checklist for DR-05X
- Hold down the ⏹️ button to turn on the recorder
- REC SETTING → FORMAT → WAV 24bit (_format_ and _bit-depth_)
- REC SETTING → SAMPLE → 48k (_sampling-rate_)
- REC SETTING → LOW CUT → 40Hz (_filter_ out wind and handling noise)
- Remember that your _stereo_ mics have an _omnidirectional polar pattern_
- Position the recorder with attention to distance and to _reflection_, _absorption_, _diffusion_, and _refraction_
- Use a windscreen if outside

- Press the record button once (REC light will flash) to preview the sound in your headphones

- Use the + and - buttons to adjust VOL (headphone volume only, **don't confuse it with INPUT LEVEL** as it has no effect on the recording)

- Set the INPUT LEVEL (_pre-amp_ _gain_), using the ⏮️ and ⏭️ buttons. The sound level should regularly reach -12db, but it should only rarely _peak_ (hit above 0db)

- Press the record button again to start recording (REC light will turn solid). Don't adjust INPUT LEVEL once you have started

- Make a note of the INPUT LEVEL that you used to record self-noise later

- While it is off, plug the recorder into your computer using the USB cable, choose "SD CARD READER", and copy the WAV files from the MUSIC folder to your computer before working with them further

The full manual for the recorder is [here](media/tascam_manual.pdf).
