# Seth Cluett


fundamental strategy:
dislocation of sound from the source

specialized environments:
enclosure signifies high-fidelity, transformative listening, focused space

sculptural approach:
bare speaker is architectural and participates with the space

headphones:
the space of the head itself (current ubiquitous use is more about distraction and isolation)


////

Robert Morris
Box with the Sound of its Own Making (1961)
From inside an otherwise ordinary wooden box emerge the occasional sounds of hammering, sawing, and sanding. These sounds form part of a three-and-a-half-hour recording that Morris created while making the very box in front of us. The audio soundtrack reframes our experience of the work, suggesting an ongoing act of labor, which is interrupted only by the necessity to rest or retrieve more supplies. The work is a manifesto of sorts: insofar as it makes evident the means and methods of its own production, it heralded a paradigm shift in art, one in which process, duration, provisionality, and incompletion take pride of place.


ed osborn -- sculptural
https://www.roving.net/installation#/flying-machines/
Flying Machines (2001) is a set of delicately balanced sounding objects that are moved slowly by propellers suspended below loudspeakers at the end of long, slender arms. They have a lifelike aura and emit vocalesque sounds that recall large creatures in a state of mild agitation. These sounds seem too low to be generated by objects of this size, an acoustic mismatch intended to mirror the slippage between the title of the work and the machines' inability to leave the ground. A microcontroller-based circuit directs the objects' actions, modulating them though evolving patterns of activity. Their motions are deliberate and graceful, allowing a sense of calm despite the presence of quickly turning fan blades. The piece is designed to be experienced in extended durations, and over time it reveals complex and subtly shifting forms of movement and sound.

Janet Cardiff
The Forty Part Motet is a forty-part choral performance of English composer Thomas Tallis’s sixteenth-century composition Spem in Alium, sung by the Salisbury Cathedral Choir. The performance is played in a fourteen-minute loop that includes eleven minutes of singing and three minutes of intermission. Individually recorded parts are projected through forty speakers arranged inward in an oval formation, allowing visitors to walk throughout the installation, listening to individual voices along with the whole. Cardiff’s layering of voices creates an emotionally evocative sound sculpture that feels intimate, even within a public space.

Susan Philipsz (2012)
made for a specific place like the installation made for Kassel’s dOCUMENTA (13)4, Study for Strings (2012). For this occasion, 24 speakers were installed at Kassel’s former train station Hauptbahnhof, for which the artist had a viola and cello player play their parts of Pavel Haas’s Study for String Orchestra, playing each note separately so that each one came from individual speakers. By doing this, the composition is fragmented, scattered over the whole platform and never complete. The artist uses the power of collective memory-that station was a Nazi point of departure for transporting Jews to concentration camps-while she recovers the real, private story of Haas, who was deported to Terezín, where he composed Study for String Orchestra in 1943, one year before dying in Auschwitz.

Study for Strings will be reinstalled at MoMA on the occasion of the museum’s first exhibition on sound art, which will run from August 10 to November 3. The question remains whether such an installation could be “moved” to a different architectural environment without losing a great deal of its meaning and reception. The fact is that not only the Turner Prize awards the relevance and achievements of sound art, but one of the most relevant modern art museums will gather 16 of the most prominent artists working with sound. Susan Philipsz’s work represents a subtle and poetic approach to the use of sound, whose intention is to make us aware of our physical environment and of the sometimes invisible history attached to it, indeed very much like sculptures do.

Max Neuhaus
documentary

[all in biblio]


//

michael:
- aesthetic failure of the loudspeaker itself  /  speaker becomes surrogate for sound


kess:
- not accurate reproduction, always hidden


wallent:
- headphones code and are coded by everyday life
